the US dollar has had quite a run up in
recent history in the past few months
however things have certainly changed
all of the boost from the so-called
Trump trade has been lost the US dollar
is generally seen as the safe haven in
this topsy-turvy world all because of
the lack of options the belief is that
the US dollar although terrible will
outlast other currencies and that keeps
it relatively strong you came here for
the truth let's talk about the US dollar
today I want to talk about the stock
market I want to talk about China as
well what is this indicator that i'm
referring to let's get into that in a
moment beginning with the CNBC article
the dollar index fell to its lowest
level since mid-november as in weakened
from a high of 100 to 99 against the
basket of currencies once again I'd like
to interject the fact that when we talk
about the doll and when we talk about
any currency we are measuring this
against other currencies we are
measuring it against something else
that's fluctuating on its own it's not a
steady line being measured against so if
everything is falling in relation to
something else Mike Maloney does this a
lot and I believe Richard Duncan's both
bitte too but what we see is a
comparison if you measure the Dow Jones
in wheat or you measure the SNP in gold
and you do that over the years you get
this completely different picture but
just because we measure in u.s. dollars
or a particular currency all of a sudden
you have a particular image of how well
this particular thing is doing and I
think it really gives us a lot of
perspective to see how things change
over the years
when you measure something else the
dollar for example is quite fascinating
right now the dollar has been pretty
much wiped out all of the games that
were made on the back of this Trump
euphoria related trade I don't want to
call it Trump reflation trade because i
think the reflation traitor started
before Trump was actually elected he
goes on I don't necessarily agree with
everything these people say I'm just
bringing you the information okay let's
move on just quickly there's a lot going
to get to still on the topic of the
dolls are here the dollar fell to his
lowest since November against the basket
of currencies as investors lost
confidence in the prospects of the US
fiscal spending boost under Trump after
his failure on the so-called Obamacare
now this is something that isn't over
yet just so we're clear the whole
Obamacare repeal in fact I just saw that
one individuals trying to put through a
one-sentence bill I don't know if you
saw that a one-sentence bill to repeal
Obamacare let's see what happens with
that from inability to deliver on his
campaign pledge to overhaul the nation's
healthcare marked a big setback and it
goes on the dollar recover broadly
during North American trading button
remain down point for five percent on
the day against a basket of currencies
itself to as low as 90 88 ok basically
what they're saying is dollars falling
the u.s. is not looking strong and the
trade is going away from that into other
assets all because of Trump to just just
trying to sort of point the finger Adam
I think that's a little silly and I
think that to have it rise on the
expectation of Trump is silly as well
there should be actual hard data need
hard data in order to move things in
order to put real investment in but of
course that's just not the case now this
is it this is the key indicator traders
algorithms they're all looking for these
key indicators one of which is 200
day moving average very important
indicator for those who look at the
technicals it's been hard for analysts
to disentangle Tom traits from those
stemming from reflation and saw solid
global economic indicators suggest some
basis for bond yields and stock values
above the lows of 2016 alarm bells can
be heard in the markets as well so just
you know around the beginning of the new
year we have had significant declines
and you will see right here very
important that it breached the barrier
of 200-day moving average and that i
believe is very important because there
are always always always either trader
patterns that they're being looked at or
they are looking at the computer
algorithms are looking to into them as
well not necessarily humans so keep an
eye on the dollar I think it's something
that we should be looking at it this
time to see what happens it could be
just a short-term trend it could you
know go the other way but I always
believe that when we cross these
barriers well across these different
lines we do see a change so keep your
eye on that Chinese state firms have
expressed an interest to develop land
around the Panama Canal trade obviously
very important China expanding its
trading partners having I think it was
like 150 or whatever and whereas the US
has more like 50 so we're talking about
a significant difference China is
expanding kind of looking to get all the
partners that the US doesn't want to
deal with China is really digging in
with but in this case here with Panama
Panama Canal obviously being so
important to trade and they want to have
such control over at very very
intelligent and there's no doubt that
they are pursuing this the Panama Canal
Authority will officially open a tender
develop about twelve hundred hectares of
land Leslie the size of 1200 football
fields around the waterway by the end of
this year into a logistics park after
completing a five year long
decontamination of the area so they've
been talking to a lot of people here in
China and they're seeing that there
they're building up this investment and
they're building up the infrastructure
and that is happening with the
investment through China is this the
first time absolutely not look at this I
went back to 2016 just found the one of
these other articles and of course
that's always sort of try to do try to
bring you the historic element to it if
I something that comes off the top of my
head or if I know in advance and I can
bring up some articles or some
newspapers or some historic information
whatever I like to bring that to you so
you had that context hope you appreciate
that China buys Panama's largest port
this was back about a year ago and for
more than 100 years the Panama Canal has
controlled the bulk of goods transfer
between the Pacific and the Atlantic but
much of that history this monumental
feat was engineered in control of the US
but it's no longer the case Panama's
largest port was purchased by a Chinese
company so here you have it an expansion
of global trade and it seems to be
moving away from the US and moving into
the hands of China I just discussed this
recently this is just simply it's more
evidence it's just more wood being put
on the fire here that continues to just
expand and expand and I believe it's
very clear what China is doing two quick
articles meats and bricklaying robot
that builds wall six times faster than a
human could put millions out of work
it's pretty obvious
what is happening with robotics with
automation how they are replacing jobs
whether we like it or not now people who
are building robots unless it's another
robot that is a way to have new jobs
being created okay it's good for that
however a lot of people who are
bricklayers who only have that one skill
are suddenly left without work that's
all I'm going to say for that and then
this drone that flies without a human
pilot has been given permission to hit
the skies of Israel in the world's first
so here we have the autonomous drones
that are being allowed to be sent off
doesn't surprise me at all I'm sure
doesn't surprise you we have autonomous
drones are to be used all over the place
in warfare a lot of them aren't allowed
to be mentioned but we've seen them a
cover here on the channel before
autonomous drones and everything is sort
of going into this autonomous realm and
you know it has its good thing then it
certainly has it bad I'll leave it up to
you I just I want to bring that out
every time I see something good like
this something important I should say
that I definitely have to bring it to
you I hope you appreciate it if you
found this video informative then please
give me a thumbs up giving me thumbs up
pushes these videos higher up on the
youtube search rankings so I appreciate
it every single time and last but not
least if you found the video informative
I know you'll find my books the money
GPS and global economic collapse even
more informative so you can actually
look through the books just go over to
Amazon where they have a look inside
feature it's going to allow you to flip
through the pages of the books see if
you like them take care